Improve registries documentation (#429)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/concepts/registries.md

description: Concepts about vcpkg registries and their capabilities.
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 11/10/2024
ms.topic: concept-article
---
# Registries concepts

## Overview

vcpkg hosts a selection of libraries packaged into [ports](ports.md) at

> <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>, this collection of ports is called the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>. This collection of ports is called the
```

*curated registry*. However, vcpkg is not limited to the curated registry. Users can extend the selection of ports by
creating custom registries.

A registry is a collection of ports and helper files arranged in a specific
structure. By following the registry structure, ports contained in a registry
can be installed with the same amount of features
([versioning](../users/versioning.md), [binary
caching](../users/binarycaching.md)) offered to ports in the curated registry.

There are currently three kinds of registries: 

* The [built-in registry](#built-in-registry),
* [Git registries](#git-registries), and 
* [filesystem registries](#filesystem-registries).

vcpkg can be instructed to consider ports available in custom registries by
using a [`vcpkg-configuration.json`
file](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md#registries). See the [Tutorial:
Install a dependency from a Git-based registry](../consume/git-registries.md)
article for a tutorial on how to use custom registries in your projects.

## Registry structure

> For vcpkg to interface with a registry, it must comform with the structure
> below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For vcpkg to interface with a registry, it must conform to the following structure:
```

> * A directory named `ports`, contains the collection of ports, with each
>   subdirectory containing a specific port matching the subdirectory name. For
>   example, the files for port `foo` must be located in `ports/foo`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A directory named `ports` contains the collection of ports, with each
  subdirectory containing a specific port matching the subdirectory name. For
  example, the files for port `foo` must be located in `ports/foo`.
```

* A directory named `versions` must contain the files that comprise the [versions
  database](#versions-database).
  
### Example: registry structure

```
ports/
  foo/
    portfile.cmake
    vcpkg.json
versions/
  f-/
    foo.json
  baseline.json
```

## Versions database

All registries, regardless of their kind, must contain a `versions` folder at the
root of the registry which contains the _versions database_.

There are two components to the versions database:

> * the baseline file, 
> * the version files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The baseline file 
* The version files
```

> The baseline file is a JSON file named `baseline.json` located at the root of
> the `versions` directory. The baseline file describes the
> set of versions that are current for each port in the
> registry. The layout of the baseline file depends on the kind of registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The baseline file is a JSON file named `baseline.json` located at the root of
the `versions` directory. It describes the
set of versions that are current for each port in the
registry. The layout of the baseline file depends on the kind of registry.
```

> For each port in the registry, a corresponding _version file_ must exist.
> The versions file is a JSON file with the same name as its corresponding port,
> for example, a port named `foo` must have a corresponding `foo.json` version
> file.
> 
> vcpkg expects the versions files to be stored at the following location
> `versions/<prefix>/<port name>.json` inside the registry, where `<prefix>` is
> the first letter of the port name followed by a hyphen. For example, the
> version file for port `foo` must be stored in `versions/f-/foo.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The versions files are JSON files with the same names as the available ports.
They must exist at `versions/<prefix>/<port name>.json`, where `<prefix>` is
the first letter of the port name followed by a hyphen. For example, the
versions file for port `foo` must be at `versions/f-/foo.json`.
```

> The purpose of the version file is two-fold:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of the versions file is two-fold:
```

* List all available versions of each port

> * Point to the retrieval locations of each of version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Point to the retrieval locations of each version.
```

> Same as the baseline file, the layout of the version file depends on the kind of
> registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The format of the version file depends on the kind of the registry.
```

## Baseline file

All registries, regardless of their kind, must contain a file named
`baseline.json` located at `versions/baseline.json`.

The purpose of the baseline file is to describe the set of versions that are
considered to be the latest for all ports in the registry. It is expected that
this file is updated each time a new version of a port is added to the registry.

The file is a JSON file composed of a single object whose properties are named baseline objects. Each baseline object's properties are port names, whose values are version entries.

Each baseline version entry is an object with the following properties:

* `baseline`: the value is the port's version matching its corresponding
  `vcpkg.json` file.
* `port-version`: the value is the port's `port-version` matching its
  corresponding `vcpkg.json` file.

### Example baseline file

```json
{
  "default": {
    "foo": { "baseline": "1.0.0", "port-version": 0 },
    "bar": { "baseline": "2024-08-01", "port-version": 1 },

>     "baz": { "baseline": "vista-xp", "port-version": 0 },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "baz": { "baseline": "vista-xp", "port-version": 0 }
```

  }
}
```

See the reference documentation for:

> * baseline file layout for [Git
>   registries](../maintainers/registries.md#git-baseline)
> * baseline file layout for [filesystem
>   registries](../maintainers/registries.md#filesystem-baseline)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Baseline file layout for [Git
  registries](../maintainers/registries.md#git-baseline)
* Baseline file layout for [filesystem
  registries](../maintainers/registries.md#filesystem-baseline)
```

> ## Version files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Versions files
```

> Each port in the registry has a corresponding versions file. The versions
> file is a JSON file named the same as its corresponding port, for example, a
> port named `foo` must have a corresponding `foo.json` file. 
> 
> Versions files are stored at `versions/<prefix>/<port name>.json` , where `<prefix>` is the first letter of
> the port name followed by a hyphen. For example, the versions file for port
> `foo` is at `versions/f-/foo.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each port in the registry has a corresponding versions file.
Versions files are stored at `versions/<prefix>/<port name>.json` , where `<prefix>` is the first letter of
the port name followed by a hyphen. For example, the versions file for port
`foo` is at `versions/f-/foo.json`.
```

The purpose of the versions file is two-fold:

* List all available versions of each port

> * Point to the retrieval locations of each of these versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Point to the retrieval locations of each of these versions
```

> The layout of the version file is an object containing a `"versions"` array, with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The layout of the versions file is an object containing a `"versions"` array, with
```

each entry in that array being a version object.  A version object must contain
the following properties: 

* A version property: The property's key and value must match the ones used by
  the port in its `vcpkg.json` file. The key must be one of `version`,
  `version-semver`, `version-date`, or `version-string`; the value must be the
  version as it appears in the port's manifest file (`vcpkg.json`). 
* `port-version`: the value is the port's `port-version` as it appears in the
  port's `vcpkg.json` file. 
* `git-tree`: (only on Git registries) the value is the git-tree SHA
  corresponding to the port's directory. This is a SHA calculated by hashing the
  contents of the port's directory; this git-tree SHA can be used by Git to
  retrieve the contents of the port matching the provided git-tree. This makes
  it possible for vcpkg to retrieve old versions of ports from the registries
  Git history. Read the [git registries](#git-registries) section to learn how
  to obtain this value for any given port version.
* `path`: (only on filesystem registries) the value is the full path to a
  directory containing the port files for the specific version.

> ## Example of a filesystem registry version file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example of a filesystem registry version file
```

```json
{
  "versions": [
    {
      "path": "$/ports/foo/1.2.0",
      "version": "1.2.0",
      "port-version": 0
    },
    {
      "path": "$/ports/foo/1.1.0",
      "version": "1.1.0",
      "port-version": 0
    },
    {
      "path": "$/ports/foo/1.0.0",
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "port-version": 0
    }
  ]
}
``` 

See the reference documentation for:

> * version file layout for [Git
>   registries](../maintainers/registries.md#git-version-file)
> * version file layout for [filesystem
>   registries](../maintainers/registries.md#filesystem-version-file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Versions file layout for [Git
  registries](../maintainers/registries.md#git-version-file)
* Versions file layout for [filesystem
  registries](../maintainers/registries.md#filesystem-version-file)
```

## Built-in registry

The built-in registry is a special kind of registry. The built-in registry
is the default registry used in some operation modes, like [classic
mode](classic-mode.md). When a [default
registry](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md#default-registry) is not

> specified, vcpkg implicity uses the built-in registry as the default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specified, vcpkg implicitly uses the built-in registry.
```

The built-in registry most often refers to the local copy of the curated
registry created when you `git clone` the vcpkg repository from
<https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>. Some operations expect that the
[`VCPKG_ROOT` environment variable](../users/config-environment.md#vcpkg_root)
points to a built-in registry.

If vcpkg is acquired through the "one liner" or Visual Studio installer, the
built-in registry becomes equivalent to a [Git registry](#git-registries)
pointing to the <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg> repository.

## Git registries

> A Git registry is a repository that follows the registry structure and leverages
> Git's capatilities to provide versioning for the ports in the registry. The
> curated registry at <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg> is an implementation of
> a Git registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Git registry is a repository that follows the registry structure and leverages
Git's capabilities to provide versioning for the ports in the registry. The
curated registry at <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg> is an implementation of
a Git registry.
```

**Remember to update the port's version**

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Always remember to update the port's version to avoid rewriting the version
> history.

When you are making changes to a port, the first step should be to increase its
version in the `vcpkg.json` file. If your changes include an update to the
package's [upstream](../concepts/glossary.md#upstream) version, remember to set
the `port-version` to `0`; otherwise, remember to increase the `port-version` by
one.

**Port changes must be commited**

The [`x-add-version` command](../commands/add-version.md) requires that all your
port changes are commited to the repository before updating the version
database.

**Example: adding a new port version to a Git registry**

```Console
git add ports/foo/.
git commit -m "Temporary commit"
vcpkg x-add-version --x-builtin-ports-root=./ports --x-builtin-registry-versions-dir=./versions foo
added version 1.0.0#1 to path/to/registry/versions/f-/foo.json
added version 1.0.0#1 to path/to/registry/versions/baseline.json
```

The redirection options `--x-builtin-ports-root` and
`--x-builtin-registry-versions-dir` should point to your registry's `ports` and
`versions` directories respectively.

> Once, the `x-add-version` command runs succesfully, amend the last commit to
> include theversion database changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once, the `x-add-version` command runs successfully, amend the last commit to
include the versions file changes.
```

```bash
git commit --amend -m "Update foo to new version"
```

## Filesystem registries

> Filesystem registries are an implementation of a registry that lives on a
> filesystem. They follow the common registry structure but don't make use of Git
> to offer versioning capabilities, instead they use a primitive form of version
> control using a distinct path for each version of its ports.
> 
> These type of registries are more suited to be a testing ground for your ports.
> Or to provide an alternative for registries in version control systems that are
> not Git. Since no tooling is offered to manipulate the version database files,
> this method is not recommended for large collections of ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filesystem registries are an implementation of a registry that lives on a
filesystem. They follow the common registry structure but don't make use of Git
to offer versioning capabilities. Instead, they use a primitive form of version
control using a distinct path for each version of its ports.

These types of registries are more suited to be a testing ground for your ports or to provide an alternative for registries in version control systems that are
not Git. Since no tooling is offered to manipulate the version database files,
this method is not recommended for large collections of ports.
```

works as the fallback when a port's name is not found in any other registry
specified in the [`registries` array](#registries-array).

As a convenience for users that are not engaging with custom registries, vcpkg
implicitly adds the [built-in registry](#built-in-registry) as the default
registry. To change this behavior, the default registry can be set to any
registry or disabled completely using the
[`default-registry`](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md#default-registry)
property.

**Example: Set a custom registry as default**

`vcpkg-configuration.json`

```json
{
  "default-registry": {
    "kind": "git",
    "repository": "https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg",
    "baseline": "84a143e4caf6b70db57f28d04c41df4a85c480fa"
  }
}
```

**Example: Disable the default registry**

`vcpkg-configuration.json`

```json
{
  "default-registry": null
}
```

### Registries array

To extend the selection of ports available to install with vcpkg, you can
specify additional registries using the [`registries`
array](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md#registries).

**Example: Add custom registries to the configuration**

> [!NOTE]

> > Depending on the registry kind you may need to provide different information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Depending on the registry kind, you may need to provide different information
```

> in the `registries` array. See the [`vcpkg-configurtion.json`
> reference](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md#registries) to learn which
> properties are required for each registry kind.

`vcpkg-configuration.json`

```json
{
  "default-registry": {
    "kind": "git",
    "repository": "https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg",
    "baseline": "84a143e4caf6b70db57f28d04c41df4a85c480fa"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "git",
      "repository": "https://my.privateregistry.git",
      "baseline": "caf6b70db5784a143e4f28d05c480fa4c41df4a8",
      "packages": [ "foo" ]
    },
    {
      "kind": "filesystem",
      "path": "C:/path/to/registry",
      "baseline": "baseline1",
      "packages": [ "bar" ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Recommended practices for registries

**Don't rewrite version history**

> Once a version has been pubished to the version database, do not change its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a version has been published to the versions files, do not change its
```

associated `git-tree` in a git registry or directory in a filesystem registry.

One of vcpkg's design principles is that the versions of installed dependencies

> do not change without user intervention. Rewriting the version file history by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do not change without user intervention. Rewriting the versions file history by
```

changing a `git-tree` entry violates this principle.

If the existing version has issues, prefer to create a new
[`port-version`](../reference/vcpkg-json.md#port-version).

> **Don't delete version files**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Don't delete versions files**
```

When removing a port from your registry, remove its contents from the ports
directory and its entry in the baseline file. But _do not_ remove its associated

> version file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
versions file.
```

> Even if a port no longer exists in the registry, as long as the version file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if a port no longer exists in the registry, as long as the versions file
```

remains, users of the port can install old versions by using [version

> `overrides`](../users/versioning.md#overrides).s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`overrides`](../users/versioning.md#overrides).
```

creating custom registries.

A registry is a collection of ports and helper files arranged in a specific
structure. By following the registry structure, ports contained in a registry
can be installed with the same amount of features
([versioning](../users/versioning.md), [binary
caching](../users/binarycaching.md)) offered to ports in the curated registry.

There are currently three kinds of registries: 

* The [built-in registry](#built-in-registry),
* [Git registries](#git-registries), and 
* [filesystem registries](#filesystem-registries).

vcpkg can be instructed to consider ports available in custom registries by
using a [`vcpkg-configuration.json`
file](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md#registries). See the [Tutorial:
Install a dependency from a Git-based registry](../consume/git-registries.md)
article for a tutorial on how to use custom registries in your projects.

## Registry structure

For vcpkg to interface with a registry, it must comform with the structure
below:

* A directory named `ports`, contains the collection of ports, with each
  subdirectory containing a specific port matching the subdirectory name. For

>   example, the files for port `foo` must be located in `ports/foo`.

Author: It is not required by filesystem registries either since the version files are the ones that resolve each version's path. But I think it is better to document a recommended layout.

> * A directory named `ports`, contains the collection of ports, with each
>   subdirectory containing a specific port matching the subdirectory name. For
>   example, the files for port `foo` must be located in `ports/foo`.

Reviewer 2: Then how about

```suggestion
* A directory named `ports`, contains the collection of ports, with each
  subdirectory containing a specific port matching the subdirectory name. For
  example, the files for port `foo` should be located in `ports/foo`.
```

* A directory named `versions` must contain the files that comprise the [versions
  database](#versions-database).
  
### Example: registry structure

```
ports/
  foo/
    portfile.cmake
    vcpkg.json
versions/
  f-/
    foo.json
  baseline.json
```

## Versions database

> All registries, regardless of their kind, must contain a `versions` folder at the

Reviewer 2: Given that we are describing to users what registries are, rather than describing what behavior something implementing registries must do, I think we should describe them with present tense, as in "registries contain a versions directory" rather than "registries must contain a versions directory". I think we should reserve 'must' for things the user has to do rather than things vcpkg does.

I also suggest 'directory' rather than 'folder' everywhere, as 'folder's can be non-directories like the network browser or control panel, but we really need them to be directories.

> All registries, regardless of their kind, must contain a `versions` folder at the

Reviewer 2: I see you're already doing this in most places.

> All registries, regardless of their kind, must contain a `versions` folder at the

Author: > Given that we are describing to users what registries are, rather than describing what behavior something implementing registries must do, I think we should describe them with present tense, as in "registries contain a versions directory" rather than "registries must contain a versions directory". I think we should reserve 'must' for things the user has to do rather than things vcpkg does.

I agree with this recommendation, I'll revise the document.

root of the registry which contains the _versions database_.

There are two components to the versions database:

* the baseline file, 
* the version files.

The baseline file is a JSON file named `baseline.json` located at the root of

> the `versions` directory. The purpose of the baseline file is to describe the
> set of versions that are considered to be the latest for each port in the
> registry. The layout of the baseline file depends on the kind of registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `versions` directory. The baseline file describes the
set of versions that are current for each port in the
registry. The layout of the baseline file depends on the kind of registry.
```

I suggest 'current' rather than 'latest' because there is no requirement that the versions listed in the baseline are the ones that sort last.

For each port in the registry, a corresponding _version file_ must exist.
The versions file is a JSON file with the same name as its corresponding port,
for example, a port named `foo` must have a corresponding `foo.json` version
file.

vcpkg expects the versions files to be stored at the following location
`versions/<prefix>/<port name>.json` inside the registry, where `<prefix>` is
the first letter of the port name followed by a hyphen. For example, the
version file for port `foo` must be stored in `versions/f-/foo.json`.

The purpose of the version file is two-fold:

* List all available versions of each port
* Point to the retrieval locations of each of version.

Same as the baseline file, the layout of the version file depends on the kind of
registry.

## Baseline file

All registries, regardless of their kind, must contain a file named
`baseline.json` located at `versions/baseline.json`.

The purpose of the baseline file is to describe the set of versions that are
considered to be the latest for all ports in the registry. It is expected that

> this file is updated each time a new version of a port is added to the registry.

Reviewer 2: This duplicates the block above. Choose one place or the other?

> The layout of the file is a map of named baselines. With each named baseline
> being itself a map of port names to version entries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The file is a JSON file composed of a single object whose properties are named baseline objects. Each baseline object's properties are port names, whose values are version entries.
```

The [JSON spec](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) calls this 'object' rather than 'map'

Each baseline version entry is an object with the following properties:

* `baseline`: the value is the port's version matching its corresponding
  `vcpkg.json` file.
* `port-version`: the value is the port's `port-version` matching its
  corresponding `vcpkg.json` file.

### Example baseline file

```json
{

>   "default": {

Reviewer 2: Do you want to describe how this is always 'default' for git registries and the baseline names for filesystem registries, or is that a bridge too far?

    "foo": { "baseline": "1.0.0", "port-version": 0 },
    "bar": { "baseline": "2024-08-01", "port-version": 1 },
    "baz": { "baseline": "vista-xp", "port-version": 0 },
  }
}
```

See the reference documentation for:

* baseline file layout for [Git
  registries](../maintainers/registries.md#git-baseline)
* baseline file layout for [filesystem
  registries](../maintainers/registries.md#filesystem-baseline)

## Version files

> Each port in the registry must have a corresponding versions file. The versions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each port in the registry has a corresponding versions file. The versions
```

file is a JSON file named the same as its corresponding port, for example, a
port named `foo` must have a corresponding `foo.json` file. 

> vcpkg expects the versions files to be stored in the following location
> `versions/<prefix>/<port name>.json` , where `<prefix>` is the first letter of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Versions files are stored at `versions/<prefix>/<port name>.json` , where `<prefix>` is the first letter of
```

the port name followed by a hyphen. For example, the versions file for port

> `foo` must be stored in `versions/f-/foo.json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`foo` is at `versions/f-/foo.json`.
```

The purpose of the versions file is two-fold:

* List all available versions of each port
* Point to the retrieval locations of each of these versions.

> The layout of the version file is an object containing a `"versions"` array, with

Reviewer 2: Should we write a JSON-schema for these things? (No change requested in this PR, just wondering)

  contents of the port's directory; this git-tree SHA can be used by Git to
  retrieve the contents of the port matching the provided git-tree. This makes
  it possible for vcpkg to retrieve old versions of ports from the registries
  Git history. Read the [git registries](#git-registries) section to learn how
  to obtain this value for any given port version.
* `path`: (only on filesystem registries) the value is the full path to a
  directory containing the port files for the specific version.

## Example of a filesystem registry version file

```json
{
  "versions": [
    {
      "path": "$/ports/foo/1.2.0",
      "version": "1.2.0",
      "port-version": 0
    },
    {
      "path": "$/ports/foo/1.1.0",
      "version": "1.1.0",
      "port-version": 0
    },
    {
      "path": "$/ports/foo/1.0.0",
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "port-version": 0
    }
  ]
}
``` 

See the reference documentation for:

* version file layout for [Git
  registries](../maintainers/registries.md#git-version-file)
* version file layout for [filesystem
  registries](../maintainers/registries.md#filesystem-version-file)

> ## Built-in registry

Reviewer 2: Given that the user can't name this thing, do we want to describe it as a registry in the first place? It breaks a lot of the rules you've described elsewhere in this document...

Author: I think this is important to describe what happens in classic mode and when users don't explicitly set a default registry.

The built-in registry is a special kind of registry. The built-in registry
is the default registry used in some operation modes, like [classic
mode](classic-mode.md). When a [default
registry](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md#default-registry) is not
specified, vcpkg implicity uses the built-in registry as the default.

> The built-in registry most often refers to the local copy of the curated

Reviewer 2: You changed this to 'most often', under what circumstances is it not this?

Author: ```suggestion
The built-in registry refers to the local copy of the curated
```

Author: There are `--x-builtin-[ports|versions]-dir` redirection arguments that can change that.

## Git registries

A Git registry is a repository that follows the registry structure and leverages
Git's capatilities to provide versioning for the ports in the registry. The
curated registry at <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg> is an implementation of
a Git registry.

Git registries can be hosted in any Git repository provider, allowing you to
use your chosen Git hosting service to control access to your custom registry
while also making your registry easy to share.

Git registries are the recommended method for implementing a custom registry.
Since the versioning mechanism is the same used by the curated registry, Git
registries can make use of the [`x-add-version`](../commands/add-version.md) to
manage your version database files.

See the [registries reference](../maintainers/registries.md#git-registries) for
implementation details of Git registries.

### <a name="git-add-version"> Adding a new version to a Git registry

The [`x-add-version`](../commands/add-version.md) command can be used to to add
a new port or a new version to the registry. When adding versions using this
command there are a couple of things to keep in mind:

> **Remember to update the port's version**
> 
> > [!IMPORTANT]
> > Always remember to update the port's version to avoid rewriting the version
> > history.

Reviewer 2: It seems like the bolded bit and the important block say the same thing?

```suggestion
> [!IMPORTANT]
> When adding a new version, always remember to update the port's declared version to one not already published, to avoid rewriting the version history.
```

I'm not so sure my attempt in the suggestion is an improvement; the point I'm trying to describe is that `--overwrite-version` may be appropriate when the version being edited isn't yet published.

}
```

### Registries array

To extend the selection of ports available to install with vcpkg, you can
specify additional registries using the [`registries`
array](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md#registries).

**Example: Add custom registries to the configuration**

> [!NOTE]
> Depending on the registry kind you may need to provide different information
> in the `registries` array. See the [`vcpkg-configurtion.json`
> reference](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md#registries) to learn which
> properties are required for each registry kind.

`vcpkg-configuration.json`

```json
{
  "default-registry": {
    "kind": "git",
    "repository": "https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg",
    "baseline": "84a143e4caf6b70db57f28d04c41df4a85c480fa"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "git",
      "repository": "https://my.privateregistry.git",
      "baseline": "caf6b70db5784a143e4f28d05c480fa4c41df4a8",
      "packages": [ "foo" ]
    },
    {
      "kind": "filesystem",
      "path": "C:/path/to/registry",
      "baseline": "baseline1",
      "packages": [ "bar" ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Recommended practices for registries

**Don't rewrite version history**

> Once a version has been pubished to the version database, do not change its
> associated `git-tree`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a version has been pubished to the version database, do not change its
associated `git-tree` in a git registry or directory in a filesystem registry.
```
